---------------------------------------
Project Overview
---------------------------------------
200 Years Together text needs to be broken up in a way that works for an API based 11labs audiobook maker that can use stolen/sniffed premium keys.
Will share with frens later on, as it can also be used as a base for auto podcast making, which is something a lot of people ask for, like audiobooks, 
Fuck manually dragging files onto an audacity timeline and proof listening more than once.
Each new paragraph/empty line between sentences will be a sseperate audio file
11labs has its own longform/audiobook maker now, but mine generates seperate files in chunks that are labeled numerically, and the text file 
we use as an input will generate a text file as an output that labels each block of text.That makes fixing errors easy.
Also comes with an ffmpeg script that stitches everything together with a slight pause.



11labs Model to use - English v1 (Multilang v2 sounds better, but drifts too quick and isnt consistent with pronounciation)

We will test 1 chapter first, proof listen, and make any auto replace edits needed afterwords (ie Alexander II could be said as Alexander the Second (so replace Alexander II with 'Alexander the Second"))
When a chapter is done, add that text to the Chapters folder.

Will need Word, LibreOffice, or Openoffice to go through the doc. Easier to Space Headings


--------------------------------------
Edits needed for the text
--------------------------------------



Delete Special characters or insertions
Examples;
[69] - !!! Copypasting from the pdf atm changes [69] to "*69+. for some reason. If you can auto delete anything within "*  + or after "* , then that could save some time.
ccxix+

Delete Footnotes, along with the word "Footnotes", usually at the end of chapter - DONE in the word Document

Delete Footnote numbers within paragraphs, 

Inspect any content within brackets, and determine whether or not it should be deleted.
Examples;
The Bible said: “Let my 
people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness.” (Ex. 5:1)
**"Ex. 5:1" wouldnt be auto pronounced as "Exodus 5:1", but that bracketed text could either be deleted completley, or "Ex" changed to "Exodus".

Inspect numbers and Dates and make edits to make the way they are pronounced consistent
Examples;
"1972-73" will often vary between being prounced as "Nineteen seventy two Seventy three", and "Nineteen seventy two, to Seventy three". 

[
The text needs to be brought back together in some parts
like;

in 1874, we
can see a marked rise in the number of blah blas occuring, 

in 1874, we can see a marked rise in the number of blah blahs occuring, 

May not be a a problem for the audio making, but it makes shit messy when proof reading
]

Separate any headings that are lost within the text. (just have the 200 YT pdf next to you as you scroll through the doc, and see if theres a sub heading that needs seperateing with a new line above and below it.
Add full stops where a pause is needed 

Easiest edist to make first will be just looking for numbers and symbols that stick out. A random "1", the number for a footnote etc.

------------------
This is good - 
------------------

What could the remaining residents of “totalitarian Moscow” think? There was a great 
variety of responses, from grievance (“You, Jews, are allowed to leave and we aren’t…”) to 
the despair of intellectuals. L.K Chukovksaya expressed it in conversation to me: “Dozens of 
valuable people are leaving, and as a result human bonds vital for the country are ripped 
apart. The knots that hold together the fabric of culture are being undone.”


If you just read the last sentence, and the beginning of the next sentence/paragraph, is that where youd want a pause?


------------------
This is Too Long
------------------
We can read the thoughtful comments of an emigrant Jewish author about this Departure: 
“Russian Jewry were pathfinders in their experiment to merge with the Russian people and 
Russian culture, they became involved in Russia’s fate and history, and, repulsed away as if 
by a similarly charged body, left.” (What an accurate and penetrating comparison!) “What is 
most stunning about this Departure is how, at the moment of greatest assimilation, 
voluntary it was…. The pathetic character of the Russian Aliyah of the 1970s … was that we 
were not exiled from the country on a king’s order or by the decision of party and parliament, 
and we were not fleeing to save ourselves from the whips of an enraged popular pogrom … 
this fact is not immediately obvious to the participants in this historical event.”*71+
No doubt, the Jewish emigration from the USSR ushered in a great historical shift. The 
beginning of the Exodus drew a line under an epoch lasting two centuries of coerced coexistence between Jews and Russians. From that point every Soviet Jew was free to choose 
for himself — to live in Russia or outside it. By the second half of the 1980s each was entirely 
free to leave for Israel without struggle. 


[EXAMPLE - Unmodified Text]
When in 1972-73 more than 30,000 Soviet Jews had left for Israel per year, Golda Meir used 
to meet them personally at the airport and wept, and the Israeli press called their mass 
arrivals “the Miracle of the 20th century.” Back then “everyone left for Israel. Those who 
took the road to Rome,” that is to say not to Israel, “were pointed out. But then the number 
of arrivals started to fall from year to year. It decreased from tens of thousands to thousands, 
from thousands to hundreds, from hundreds to a few lone individuals. In Vienna, it was no 
longer those taking the road to Rome [the next stop on the road to the final desired 
destination, usually the U.S.] who were pointed out, it was those ‘loners,’ those ‘clowns,’ 
those ‘nuts,’ who still left for Israel.”*43+ “Back then Israel used to be the ‘norm’ and you had 
to explain why you were going ‘past’ it, but it was the other way round now: it was those 
planning to leave for Israel that often had to explain their decision.”*44+
“Only the first wave was idealistic”; “starting with 1974, so to speak the second echelon of 
Jews began to leave the USSR, and for those Israel might have been attractive, but mainly 
from a distance.”*45+ Another’s consideration: “Perhaps the phenomenon of neshira 
[neshira – dispersal on the way to Israel; noshrim – the dispersed ones] is somehow 
connected to the fact that initial emigration used to be from the hinterlands [of the USSR], 
where *Jewish+ traditions were strong, and now it’s more from the centre, where Jews have 
substantially sundered themselves from their traditions.”*46+ 

[EXAMPLE - Modified Text]

When in 1972 to 73 more than 30,000 Soviet Jews had left for Israel per year, Golda Meir used 
to meet them personally at the airport and wept, and the Israeli press called their mass 
arrivals “the Miracle of the 20th century.” Back then “everyone left for Israel. Those who 
took the road to Rome,” that is to say not to Israel, “were pointed out. But then the number 
of arrivals started to fall from year to year. 

[The above is a good length, and it breaks the text at a normal sounding point to break it.

It decreased from tens of thousands to thousands, from thousands to hundreds, from hundreds to a few lone individuals. In Vienna, it was no 
longer those taking the road to Rome [the next stop on the road to the final desired 
destination, usually the U.S.] who were pointed out, it was those ‘loners,’ those ‘clowns,’ 
those ‘nuts,’ who still left for Israel.

Back then Israel used to be the ‘norm’ and you had 
to explain why you were going ‘past’ it, but it was the other way round now: it was those 
planning to leave for Israel that often had to explain their decision.
Only the first wave was idealistic, starting with 1974, so to speak the second echelon of 
Jews began to leave the USSR, and for those Israel might have been attractive, but mainly 
from a distance.

Another’s consideration, “Perhaps the phenomenon of Neshira, 
[neshira – dispersal on the way to Israel; noshrim – the dispersed ones] is somehow 
connected to the fact that initial emigration used to be from the hinterlands [of the USSR], 
where Jewish traditions were strong, and now it’s more from the centre, where Jews have 
substantially sundered themselves from their traditions.


